README file for man(1).

This is a replacement for Un*x man(1), apropos(1), whatis(1), and
manpath(1).  It has all kinds of neat features that other versions of
man don't, including support for multiple man page directory trees,
preformatted man pages, and troff.  It is provided without any
warranty whatever.  I hope you find it useful.  It is distributed
under the terms of the GNU copyleft which is described in the file
COPYING.

There is a solution written in perl which is probably superior in
every way, but, like me, you may prefer this one anyway.
:-)

If you compile with support for preformatted man pages, man(1) will
try to update the preformatted page if the man page source is newer.

If you compile with support for troff, you can say things like
`man -t foo | psdit > foo.ps' and have fabulous printed documentation
as well.

The file ndir.h is included because you might need it to compile glob.c.

These programs have been tested on a VaxStation 3200 running Ultrix 3.1, 
and an Encore Multimax running Umax 4.3, a DEC 5810 running Ultrix 4.0, 
and a Convex C-220 running Convex Unix.

INSTALLATION

1. Edit the file config.h to match your site.

2. Edit the manpath.config file.  This determines the system-wide
   mappings for bin directories and man page directories.

3. Edit the Makefile.  Make sure that all the directories you specify
   exist -- no checks are made on this.

4. Do a `make all', try it out, and then if you're happy with that, do
   a `make install'.  You don't need to be root to use this set of
   programs.

5. Install the whatis database(s) by running makewhatis.  If you want
   to keep things absolutely current, you'll need to run this whenever
   you add new man pages.  You might want to add an entry in your
   crontab. 


BUGS

If you find one of these, please tell me about it.  If you have a fix,
that's even better.  If not, I can't guarantee that I'll fix it, but I
would like to know about them.

John Eaton
jwe@che.utexas.edu
Department of Chemical Engineering
The University of Texas at Austin
Austin, Texas  78712
