This is a C implementation of the old ``lunar lander''
game seen in amusement arcades in the mid-seventies.
 
This version has been ported to various System 5.3
systems, namely 386/ix and HCR's port of System 5.3 to
a VAX.  It has also been ported to a version of BSD.
 
Lander utilises some of the nifty SysV.3 curses capabilities
such as line drawing.  Anyone using an ANSI compatible
terminal should see the full effect.  Assorted Visual
terminals will give the same results with a decent terminfo
file.  BSD people are stuck with their implementation
of curses, but it still looks kind of okay.
 
Lander uses a high score file that is writable by
all users running the program, please edit the Makefile to
ensure a valid name is used.  Lander will attempt to
create the HS file the first time the game is run and
a successful landing is completed.
 
Please read the copyright info at the bottom of the man page.
 
 
Controlling the Lander
----------------------
 
The lander is fitted with three rockets;
 
          /~\
          | |
   left  -+++-  right
           |
      vert. thrust
 
Press keys '0' - '9' to set the default power level,
where '0' == no power and '9' == full power.
 
Pressing 'z' sets the power output of the left rocket
to the default, this has the effect of pushing the lander
to the right (if the default power level is > 0).
 
Pressing 'c' sets the power output of the right rocket
to the default, this has the effect of pushing the lander
to the left.
 
Pressing 'x' sets the vertical thrust of the middle rocket
to the default level, if this is non zero it will slow the
rate of descent of the lander.  If it sets it to zero the
lander will drop like a brick!
 
What's on the Screen
--------------------
 
The top of the screen reads;
 
alt:  X:  dY:  dX:  Score:
 
'alt'   - is the current altitude from "sea level" in metres
'X'     - is how far you have moved horizontally (in meters)
'dY'    - is your rate of change of vertical movement, (e.g. -10.0
          means you fell 10 meters in the previous second)
'dX'    - is your rate of change of horizonal movement, (e.g. -10.0
          means you moved left 10 metres in the previous second)
'Score' - is your current score.
 
At the bottom of the screen;
 
Thrust - L:  vert:  R:  pow:  Fuel:
 
'L'     - is thrust from the left rocket (pushes you to the right)
'R'     - is thrust from the right rocket (pushes you to the left)
          Both 'L' and 'R' alter the 'dX' value.
'vert'  - is thrust from the vertical rocket (slows the lander's
          rate of descent i.e. alters 'dY')
'pow'   - is the default power setting that will be used when you
          press 'z', 'x' or 'c'
'Fuel'  - the amount of fuel left, when this reaches zero all thrust
          from rockets ceases.
 
The two rules for landing are;
        1. Try to get dY >= -5 metres per second, anything faster
           than -5 will cause the lander to explode.
        2. Make sure you are landing on a pad.
