README file for the admutils V1.3 for Linux.

LICENSE:
This software is distributed as is without any warranty what so ever.
With respect to copyrights it is covered by the GNU Public License.

This version is tested and built under Linux 0.97 with gcc-2.2.2.
You will have a hard time making it work with the older compilers and
libraries.

DATE: 29-Aug-92

CONTENTS.
last	-	A new and better last command, a port from BSD done by
		Michael Haardt.

chsh	-	CHangeSHell changes the shell entry in the passwd file.
		Written from scratch by me.

passwd	-	Changes the password in the passwd file.
		Also done from scratch by me.

su	-	A su(1) command by me.

newgrp	-	Sets the gid if possible, ala su(1), written by Michael
		Haardt.

shutdown -	Shuts down linux. Supports timed shutdowns, and sends
		warnings to all users currently logged in. It then
		kills all processes and unmounts file-systems etc.

		Shutdown also doubles as halt and reboot commands.

		Shutdown leaves the file /etc/nologin behind after shutdown,
		it is wise to have a "rm -f /etc/nologin" in ones /etc/rc

ctrlaltdel -	Sets the behaviour of the Ctrl-Alt-Del combination.
		"ctrlaltdel hard" makes the key-combination instantly reboot
		the machine without syncing the disk or anything. This may
		very well corrupt the data on the disk.

		"ctrlaltdel soft" makes the key-combination send a SIGINT to
		the init process. Such a command would typically be in /etc/rc.
		For this to make sense you must run the init from the
		poeigl-1.4 package or later. The System V compatible init in
		this package won't reboot the machine when it gets a SIGINT.
		Linux version 0.96b-PL1 or later is also needed for this
		feature to work.

init	-	Another init program that is supposed to be SysV compatible.
		This was developed for Minix by Miquel van Smoorenburg, and
		ported to Linux by me. It uses an inittab format very
		different from the simpleinit program that comes standard
		with Linux 0.96b. It has to to be System V compatible.
		I haven't tested this very much and don't use it myself,
		be sure you know what you are doing if you want to use it.
		It is very easy to lock oneself out of the machine if some-
		thing goes wrong.
		It uses the /etc/sysvinittab file and not /etc/inittab. This
		is so that you can test it without abandoning the old init.
		Change it in the source when you feel sure that it works.

INSTALLATION.
Simply do a

	make

and then (optionally) as root:

	make install


	- Peter (poe@daimi.aau.dk)
