This directory contains:

nfs-server-1.5.10.tar.gz

	I hope this is very close to a real version.
	Three bugs: the create bug with SunOS diskless
	clients, NFS files can now have a `%' in them,
	and a NULL dereference bug.

nfs-server-1.5.9.tar.gz

	Here is the latest and greatest.  A major
	bug where files weren't getting truncated
	properly is fixed.  Also, a new option is available
	to prevent re-exporting imported NFS filesystems.

nfs-server-1.5.7.tar.gz

	This one compiles on POSIX systems without
	PATH_MAX defined and fixes a bug in supplementary
	groups.  Also, the uid and gid of nobody are now
	detected.

	Please send feedback to me, jrs@world.std.com.

nfs-server-1.5.6.tar.gz

	I think this one fixes the bug with SunOS creating
	files on Linux like "?rw-r--r--".  More portable
	than ever.  Plus it includes Stephen Harris's
	patch to support supplementary groups.

	Please send feedback to me, jrs@world.std.com.

nfs-server-1.5.5.tar.gz

	This is yet another ALPHA release of the Universal
	NFS server.  This includes support for K&R compilers
	so you don't need GCC to compile it.

	Please send feedback to me, jrs@world.std.com.

nfs-server-1.5.4.tar.gz

	This is another ALPHA release of the Universal NFS server.
	This one has long options, Job de Haas's rouge
	client security patch, Eric Kasten's mixed rw/ro
	export to one client patch, and lot's of new
	portability fixes.

	Please send feedback to me, jrs@world.std.com.

nfs-server-1.5.1-tar.gz

	The is an ALPHA release of the Universal NFS server.
	It now compiles on other systems besides Linux
	and uses GNU autoconf and configure.  It includes
	Mark Eichin's fixes for booting diskless sun3's.
	It also supports "mknod" from the client now.
	Showmount output format is fixed, the symlink handling
	in mountd is REALLY fixed (check out realpath.c if you
	are a programmer, that was fun to write).

	Please send feedback to me, jrs@world.std.com.

nfs-server-1.5.tar.z

	The is a new release of the NFS server for Linux.
	This version includes multi-file descriptor patches
	for Orest Zborowski and lots of changes by Fred
	van Kempen.  I also wrote a showmount and fixed a big
	symlink bug in mountd.

mount-0.99.6.tar.Z

	This fixes a one-line "off by one" bug
	that could cause mount to dump core under
	some circumstances.

	Now moved to /pub/linux/sources/sbin directory.

nfs-client-0.5a.patch.Z

	This is a patch relative to Linux 0.99.4 plus
	nfs-client-0.5.  It is just a few lines but really
	fixes the rename attribute caching bug and fixes
	some weaknesses with the sanity checking added
	in nfs-client-0.5.

rpc-0.9.tar.Z
rpc-0.9.README

	This is the latest version of the RPC support programs
	and files for Linux.  Too much has changed to detail
	the features here.  Please read the README file.

nfs-server-1.2.tar.Z

	This is an evaluation version of the Linux
	NFS server.  There are some new features and
	lots of bug fixes since nfs-server-1.0.

nfs-client-0.5.patch.Z

	This is a patch to Linux 0.99.4 to fix a few bugs.
	There is a lot more sanity checking for the possibility
	or corrupted packets.  Another attribute cache bug
	related to renaming files is fixed.  Finally, there
	is a change to the way attributes are updated
	to fix a bug when modifying files owned by a
	group you are not a member of.

mount-0.99.2.tar.Z

	Source and binaries for a new NFS capable mount with
	lots of bug fixes and enhancements.  Even includes
	a nfs man page...

nfs-client-0.4.patch.Z

	This is a patch to Linux 0.99.2 to fix a few
	problems with attribute caching in the presence of
	hard links as well as a few other minor cleanups.

old/nfs-server-1.0.tar.Z

	Source and binaries for a simple but complete user-space
	NFS server.  Originally written by Mark Shand.  Rewritten
	by Don Becker.  Rewritten again by me and ported to Linux.
	There are still a couple of bugs and some limitations but
	it is quite safe and usable.

	New version available shortly...

old/sunrpc-4.0.src.tar.Z
old/sunrpc-4.0.bin.tar.Z
old/sunrpc-4.0.bin.README

	Source and binaries for the RPC (Remote Procedure Call)
	library written by Sun and ported to Linux by me.
	Note!  A kernel patch is no longer needed for Linux 0.98
	patchlevel 3 with TCP/IP 0.8.2.  The patch is for 0.8.1 only. 

	New version available shortly...

nfs-client-0.3a.tar.Z
nfs-client-0.3a.README

	This is a beta version of my NFS filesystem for Linux.
	Version 0.3a is for Linux-0.98 patchlevel 6.
	Later versions of Linux have the NFS client included.

Rick Sladkey
jrs@world.std.com
