emul 0.1 (alpha test)
Copyright (c), Lawrence Foard, 1992
lfoard@turing.org, entropy@world.std.com

This is a test version of the VWIS Xenix (tm) system call emulation software
for Linux. Please don't count on this version being reliable enough for
practical use :-)

So far I've tested it with a small number of programs which work with very
few problems. Even the Xenix shell almost works, except it seg faults when
using pipes, its likely that there are still a number of system calls
which will not be recognized. If you run into any please send me the
system call # and a copy of the executable if its freeware. 

Portions of the signal interface are not yet implemented (sighold etc.),
these should be available in the next release assuming, however everything
I've tried so far seems to get along ok without them.

At this point I don't intend to implement Xenix shared memory or
IPC support. If you know of any major software that cannot work without
this please let me know.

Kernel Note-
 This version contains a copy of my .96b kernel, I will soon be 
 switching to .97 and will send out a patch that will work from
 the fresh .97 kernel, as soon as I make the needed changes.

Files-

 The tar file should have contained the following:
 
 Binaries:
  emul-precompiled emulator (needs gcc2.2.2 shared library)
  Image-.97 kernel image (you need to adjust it to your root device)
  
 Sources:
  kernel.diff-Diff file for .97 kernel source
  *.c *.h-The emulator

Binaries-
 Copy Image to a boot floppy and adjust the root device (bytes 508 and 509),
 if you don't have a way to do this compile setboot.c which is included,
 boot floppy and type:
  emul [name of 386 xenix program]
 or
  emul -d junk.tmp [name of 386 xenix program] 
 to record a list of system calls used.

Sources-
 Patch your kernel (make a backup first just incase) and recompile.
 Make sure the -I define in the makefile points to the location of
 the kernel include files and type make to compile emul.

Warning:
 I had some trouble with stat.h when switching from the old C
 compiler, its possible that this could cause trouble if your
 not using gcc 2.2.2.

