This is release 1.2 of rc.

Read COPYRIGHT for copying information. All files are

Copyright 1991, Byron Rakitzis.

COMPILING

rc was written in portable ANSI C. For those without gcc or some other
compiler which groks prototypes and (void *), there is a set of awk
scripts which convert the source into old-style C. To do this, type
"make C". This is a nondestructive operation; the new code will be
placed in a subdirectory called "C".

Please read the Makefile, and make sure that the configuration parameters
are appropriate for your system. Also, look at config.h and stddef.h.

To compile the history program, type "make history". This will create
1 binary and three soft links pointing at the binary. They are respectively
named -, --, -p and --p.

BUGS

Send bug reports to byron@archone.tamu.edu. If a core dump is
generated, sending me a backtrace will help me out a great deal. You
can get a backtrace like this:

	; gdb rc core
	(gdb) where
	<<<BACKTRACE INFO>>>
	(gdb)

Also, always report the machine, compiler and OS used to make rc.  It's
possible I may have access to a machine of that type, in which case it
becomes much easier for me to track the bug down.

If you are using gcc, please make sure that you have a recent version of
the compiler (1.39 and up) before you send me a note; I have found that
older versions of gcc choke over rc and generate bad code on several
architectures.

MAN PAGE

The man page works with nroff on my Sun, but I had to use groff in
order to get the man page typeset for a laser printer. I am assuming
that ditroff will also format rc.1 correctly for a printer. If anyone
can tell me how to get BSD troff to do this, I would be grateful.

FEEPING CREATURISM

See the end of the man page, under "INCOMPATABILITIES" for (known?)
differences from the "real" rc. Most of these changes were necessary
to get rc to work in a reasonable fashion on a real UNIX system; a
few were changes motivated by concern about some inadequacies in
the original design.

CREDITS

This shell was written by me, Byron Rakitzis, but kudos go to Paul
Haahr for letting me know what a shell should do and for contributing
certain bits and pieces to rc (notably the limits code, most of which.c
and the backquote redirection code), and to Hugh Redelmeier for running
rc through his fussy ANSI compiler and thereby provoking interesting
discussions about portability, and also for providing many valuable
suggestions for improving rc's code in general. Finally, many thanks
go to David Sanderson, for reworking the man page to format well with
troff, and for providing many suggestions both for rc and its man page.

Thanks to Boyd Roberts for the original history.c, and to Hugh again
for re-working parts of that code.

Of course, without Tom Duff's design of the original rc, I could not
have written this shell (though I probably would have written *a*
shell). Almost of all of the features, with minor exceptions, have been
implemented as described in the Unix v10 manuals. Hats off to td for
designing a C-like, minimal but very useful shell.

Tom Duff has kindly given permission for the paper he wrote for UKUUG
to be distributed with this version of rc (called "plan9.ps"). Please
read this paper bearing in mind that it describes a program that was
written at AT&T and that the version of rc presented here differs in some
respects.
