Newsgroups: comp.os.linux.announce,comp.os.linux.admin,comp.os.linux.misc
From: mdw@sunsite.unc.edu (Matt Welsh)
Subject: Linux Distribution HOWTO
Keywords: Linux, HOWTO, distributions, mail order
Organization: Linux. It's not just for breakfast anymore.
Followup-to: poster
Approved: linux-announce@tc.cornell.edu (Matt Welsh)

Archive-name: linux/howto/distribution
Last-modified: 15 March 1994

  The Linux Distribution HOWTO
  by Matt Welsh, mdw@sunsite.unc.edu
  v2.0, 15 March 1994

  This  document  lists  the various software distributions and services
  available for Linux via mail order, anonymous FTP, and other  sources.

  1.  Introduction

  There  is no single distribution of the Linux software. Instead, there
  are many such distributions, available both via anonymous FTP and mail
  order  on  floppy,  tape,  or  CD-ROM.  This document is an attempt to
  present information on many of the available distributions  of  Linux.
  This document also contains information on many miscellaneous services
  and goods available for Linux, ranging from consulting and support  to
  T-shirts and virtual beer.

  The purpose of this document is to provide short summaries of the many
  Linux distributions and mail-order services, and to  provide  pointers
  for  the  reader  to  find  more  information. You shouldn't base your
  decision of which Linux  distribution  to  use  based  soley  on  this
  document.

  This  is  a  PRELIMINARY  version of the Distribution HOWTO. It is far
  from complete; there are many more Linux  distributions  and  services
  than  are  listed here. Unfortunately, I have not received submissions
  from many of the organizations providing these  services.  Please  see
  Section  4  at  the  end  of this document for information on making a
  submission. It's easy and fun and won't take you five minutes.


  1.1.  New versions of this document

  New versions of this document will be posted periodically (about every
  month)     to     the     newsgroups     comp.os.linux.announce    and
  comp.os.linux.misc. The document is archived on a number of Linux  FTP
  sites, including sunsite.unc.edu in pub/Linux/docs/HOWTO.

  In  the  future,  this  document  is  going  to be replaced by a Linux
  Buyer's Guide that I am working on. This will contain reviews of  each
  of  the  major Linux distributions and a list of all distributors.  In
  the meantime, keep those submissions coming.


  1.2.  And so on...

  Please see section ``New comp.os.linux.announce Policy'' at the end of
  this  document  for  information  on  how  to make submissions to this
  document.

  Disclaimer: I make absolutely no guarantee as to  the  correctness  of
  the  information, prices, and ordering details given in this document.
  Several of the entries in this HOWTO are a  bit  outdated;  check  the
  last  modified  field  of  each  to  get  an idea. Furthermore, unless
  otherwise stated the Linux software comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY.

  I  do  not  endorse or work for any of the distributors listed in this
  document. I merely include their information here as a service to  the
  Linux  community,  as  a ``buyer's guide''. Inclusion in this document
  does not mean that I recommend any of the products listed here.

  The entries for each distributor are included as they sent them to me.
  I  am  not  responsible  for  any  spelling  errors or mistakes in the
  content of this document; most of the  entries  here  have  only  been
  edited to a limited extent by myself.

  Feel  free  to mail any questions or comments about this HOWTO to Matt
  Welsh, mdw@sunsite.unc.edu.

  And now for the good stuff.


  2.  Linux Software Distributions

  This section  describes  complete  distributions  of  Linux  software,
  available either via anonymous FTP or from mail order.

  Note  that  SLS  is  missing  from  this  list. Peter hasn't sent me a
  submission for it. A few others haven't mailed in submissions (such as
  Yggdrasil)  and  I would really like to include them in this HOWTO (in
  fact, we probably won't accept submissions to c.o.l.a unless  you  are
  listed in this HOWTO). Please send in those entries!

  In  each of the following entries, my own comments are followed by the
  information from the distributors themselves. You may safely disregard
  anything I say. :)


  2.1.  Slackware Linux Distribution


     Distributor:
        Patrick Volkerding, volkerdi@mhd1.moorhead.msus.edu.

     Description:
        Slackware  Linux  is  a  full featured distribution of the Linux
        operating system designed for  386/486  computers  with  a  3.5"
        floppy.  Slackware  changes  rapidly, but here's a current (par-
        tial) feature list:

        A series (14 disks):
           Base Linux 0.99pl13  OS  and  utilities.   Networking,  UUCP,
           gcc/g++ 2.4.5, libc 4.4.4, and more.

        E series (5 disks):
           Emacs 19.19.

        F series (1 disk):
           FAQs, HOWTOs, and other documentation.

        OI series (3 disks):
           ObjectBuilder 2.0 for X.

        X series (5 disks):
           Base XFree86 2.0 X windows system with fvwm.

        XAP series (2 disks):
           X windows applications such as seyon and ghostview.

        XD series (3 disks):
           X windows program/server development.

        XV series (2 disks):
           XView 3.2 release 5, Open Look Window Manager.

        Y series (1 disk):
           Games from BSD, such as "hunt".



     Availability:
        The  home  site  is ftp.cdrom.com, where the latest distribution
        can be found in /pub/linux/slackware.  To make it easy to  down-
        load,    the    disks   can   also   be   found   pre-zooed   in
        /pub/linux/zooed_slackware. (Zoo is just a  compression  utility
        for MS-DOS).


     Ordering:
        FTP  only,  although various independent distributors provide it
        on disk, floppy, and CD.


     Entry last modified:
        5 Nov 93.


  2.2.  MCC Interim Linux

  The current MCC-Interim release is based on 0.99.pl10, which is  quite
  robust. If you are one of those people who demands to be on top of the
  current release, you'll need to upgrade your kernel (easy to  do)  and
  possibly  your  version of GCC and libraries. However, I see no reason
  why 0.99.pl10 shouldn't be good enough, at least to get you started.


     Distributor:
        Dr. A. V. Le Blanc, LeBlanc@mcc.ac.uk.


     Description:
        Base Linux installation. Complete sources and  patches  for  all
        included  software are available. Full details vary from release
        to  release;  see  /pub/linux/mcc-interim/*/Acknowledgements  at
        ftp.mcc.ac.uk.  Roughly: this includes the kernel (with source),
        C, C++, groff, man pages, basic utilities, networking. The bina-
        ries fit on 6 or 7 floppies. It is also possible to have them on
        a DOS or Linux partition on a hard drive (plus one floppy) or on
        an  NFS-mountable  partition  (plus two floppies).  New versions
        appear at 2-3 month intervals, depending on various factors.


     Availability:
        By anonymous ftp from ftp.mcc.ac.uk; mirrored at tsx-11.mit.edu,
        nic.funet.fi,    and    elsewhere.     At    ftp.mcc.ac.uk,   in
        /pub/linux/mcc-interim.


     Miscellaneous:
        Suggestions and contributions are welcome.


     Entry last modified:
        31 Oct 93.


  2.3.  TAMU Linux Distribution


     Distributor:
        Dave Safford, Texas A&M University, dave.safford@net.tamu.edu.


     Description:
        TAMU.99p12+ is the latest release  in  the  TAMU  linux  series.
        Unlike  previous  releases,  this  one  includes both integrated
        source and binary sets, with the entire binary set created  from
        a  single  top level source make. This ensures that all programs
        are  compiled  and  linked  with  the  same  current  tools  and
        libraries,  and  guarantees  availability  of working source for
        every program in the binary  set.  In  addition,  the  new  boot
        diskette  fully  automates  the  installation process, including
        partitioning, lilo  bootstrapping,  and  network  configuration.
        Installation  requires  no  rebooting,  and requires the user to
        know only the host's name and  IP  address.  At  every  step  of
        installation,  the program provides intelligent defaults, making
        it a snap for novices, while allowing experts  full  flexibility
        in   setting   installation  parameters.  Reliability  has  been
        improved over past TAMU installation by the use of labels on all
        disk images, so that the program can detect and recover from bad
        or misordered diskettes.

        This release is a full featured package, including  XFree86-1.3,
        emacs-19.18,  net-2, bootutils, and sources for all installation
        programs (without any use restrictions :-).


     Availability:
        The latest TAMU release  is  available  by  anonymous  ftp  from
        net.tamu.edu:pub/linux.


     Entry last modified:
        31 Oct 93.


  2.4.  Linux Support Team Erlangen Distribution (LST)


     Distributor:
        The  Linux  Support  Team Erlangen, a small group of students at
        the University  of  Erlangen-Nuernberg.  Contact  Stefan  Probst
        (snprobst@cip.informatik.uni-erlangen.de)    or    Ralf    Flaxa
        (rfflaxa@informatik.uni-erlangen.de).  Probably, there will be a
        collective address soon.


     Description:
        The  LST  distribution's  goal  is to provide a solid, reliable,
        easy to install (even for beginners) and well-documented system.
        We are not hunting for the newest kernel or gcc versions.  We do
        updates when they are necessary or provide really new  function-
        ality,  are  well  tested,  integrated in the system and working
        smoothly with the rest of the system. The distribution  consists
        of  a base system and additional packages. Currently the follow-
        ing packages are available: doku (doc), text, tex, develop, xde-
        velop, xbasis, xappl, xemacs, tinyx, network, grafik, src, misc.

        The complete system is 50 HD disks and 1500 pages printed  docu-
        mentation  including the LDP guides (IGS,KHG,NAG), HOWTOs, FAQs,
        the german Linuxhandbuch, install-guide and  many  other  useful
        documents we collected over the time.

        Our  distribution  is  preconfigured  for german users and comes
        with a 50 page step by step installation guide  that  leads  you
        through  the  menu-driven installation scripts (both in german).
        We started this distribution to help newcomers with their  first
        steps into Linux. Therefore our scripts are smart enough to han-
        dle all of the ``dirty work'' like setting up system  configura-
        ton  (including  LILO,  modem,  mouse, mounts, mtools, access to
        DOS, users, X11) and  network  configuration  (TCP/IP,  Routing,
        Mail, News, UUCP, SLIP).

        Historically   (and  of  course  easier  for  us)  most  of  the
        documentation for this distribution is written in german, sorry,
        but we are planning to translate those documents in english, but
        at the moment we don't have time for this.  Any  volunteers  are
        welcome!

        Our  scripts  also accept to install SLS and Slackware packages,
        but with no warranty if they work well together with the rest of
        the system.


     Availability:
        Via      anonymous      ftp:      ftp.uni-erlangen.de      under
        pub/Linux/LST.Distribution, or on 3.5" disks (also on one QIC-80
        tape).


     Ordering:
        order  at  following  adress:  Stefan  Probst, In der Reuth 200,
        91056 Erlangen, Germany.


     o  complete documentation (IGS, LHB, KHG, GDB, NAG,  HOWTOs,  FAQs,
        Installguide)  together  over  1500  pages  for  DM 139,-- (plus
        shipping).

     o  complete documentation plus complete distribution on QIC-80 tape
        (about 65 MB) for DM 199,-- (including shipping in Germany).

     o  complete  documentation  plus  complete distribution on about 50
        3.5" disks for DM 269,-- (including shipping in Germany).



     Entry last modified:
        21 Dec 93.


  2.5.  Debian Linux Distribution


     Distributor:
        Ian A. Murdock, imurdock@gnu.ai.mit.edu.


     Description:
        For those of you who are not familiar  with  Debian,  it  is  an
        effort to create a well thought-out, powerful, flexible yet com-
        plete Linux distribution.  The  motivations  behind  Debian  are
        detailed  in  the  Debian  Manifesto,  a  copy  of  which can be
        acquired as described below.

        For up-to-date information, please look  at  the  files  in  the
        directory     /pub/Linux/distributions/debian/info    at    sun-
        site.unc.edu.  If you do not have access to the Internet or FTP,
        you  may  obtain  printed  copies  by  sending a self-addressed,
        stamped envelope to:

        The Debian Linux Association
        Station 11
        P.O. Box 3121
        West Lafayette, IN  47906
        USA


        This information includes how Debian can be obtained (via FTP or
        mail-order), why Debian is being constructed (the Manifesto) and
        other general information (including  how  to  join  the  Debian
        mailing lists).


     Availability:
        Debian has not yet been "officially" released, but BETA releases
        are available to the general public at  sunsite.unc.edu  in  the
        directory /pub/Linux/distributions/debian.


     Entry last modified:
        21 Feb 94.


  2.6.  Linux from Nascent CD-ROM


     Distributor:
        Nascent Technology


     Description:
        The  Linux from Nascent CDROM is a new distribution of the Linux
        operating system which includes over 400 mbytes of source  code,
        binaries,  and documentation for Linux and applications. It fea-
        tures automated root, swap, package, network, and  user  account
        installation  from  CDROM. Linux can be can be run directly from
        the CDROM and floppy. The Nascent CDROM features Xwindows, Open-
        look,  TeX,  GNU  compiler  and utilities, Magic and Spice elec-
        tronic design tools, and over 100 high resolution images  trans-
        lated  from  Kodak  PhotoCD(TM).   Each  source  archive is dis-
        tributed with an associated notes file to allow  you  to  browse
        and install applications using a consistent interface.

        A listing of the contents of the Nascent CDROM as well as a cur-
        rent copy of the  CDROM  announcement  and  order  form  may  be
        obtained via anonymous ftp at netcom.com:/pub/nascent.


     Ordering:
        The  Linux  from Nascent CDROM, Version 1.0, is only $39.95 plus
        shipping and  handling.  Nascent  also  offers  the  Linux  from
        Nascent  Plus package for only $89.95, which includes six months
        of email support and a 30 discount off a future release  of  the
        CDROM  with  your  CDROM  purchase.  Nascent accepts Mastercard,
        VISA, checks, and money orders as payment.

        To order your Linux from Nascent CDROM, mail,  email  or  fax  a
        completed order form to:

        Nascent Technology
        Linux from Nascent CDROM
        P.O. Box 60669
        Sunnyvale CA 94088-0669 USA
        Tel: (408) 737-9500
        Fax: (408) 241-9390
        Email: nascent@netcom.com




     Entry last modified:
        28 Nov 93.



  2.7.  Trans-Ameritech CD-ROM


     Distributor:
        Trans-Ameritech, a California based corporation.


     Description:
        CDROM  with  2 versions of SLS distribution - a very stable 1.02
        and a newer 1.03 and  also  the  SLACKWARE  distribution!  Linux
        installs directly from the CD-ROM on almost any hardware config-
        uration.

        It  includes  full  X-windows  environment,  TCP/IP   networking
        including  NFS,  several  flavours of mail and news, full set of
        GNU tools and much more. Also Multimedia - sound board  support,
        image viewers and hundreds of megs of images and sounds.

        In  addition  to the full SLS distributions we supply a ``live''
        image of a configured system. Several versions of the Linux ker-
        nel  precompiled  to  cover different hardware options including
        drivers for Sony-31A and Sound Blaster CD-ROMs.


     Availability:
        At Trans-Ameritech we ship the same day as  we  get  the  order!
        Our address is:

        2342A Walsh Avenue
        Santa Clara, CA 95051




     Ordering:
        You  can order by phone (408) 727-3883 or by FAX (408) 727-3882.
        Or by sending e-mail  to:  roman@trans-ameritech.com.   Shipping
        and  handeling for overseas (as in UK and Germany) is $8.  In US
        is $5. Pay by cheque or credit card. COD in  continental  US  is
        $4.50 extra if you want it.

        The  price  for  a  single  CD-ROM is $30. California residents,
        please include tax. PRICES ARE SUBJECT TO CHANGE WITHOUT NOTICE.


     Miscellaneous:
        We  answer  technical questions about our distribution by e-mail
        sent  to:  roman@trans-ameritech.com  within  24  hours!  Trans-
        Ameritech is a well established company with efficient organiza-
        tion to guarantee on-time printing and shipping of this product.
        If  you  have a 3.5 inch boot floppy and have ftp access, please
        look on  sunsite.unc.edu  in  /pub/Linux/distributions/TransAmer
        for  a new boot floppy image with support for many CDROM drives.


     Entry last modified:
        20 Nov 93.


  2.8.  Unifix 1.02 CD-ROM


     Distributor:
        Unifix Software GmbH, Braunschweig, Germany


     Description:
        This is a Linux CD-ROM distribution with emphasis  on  easy  and
        fast  installation.  Though it is possible to install everything
        on the harddisk, we do not recommend so, because  it  runs  fast
        enough  directly  from  CD. For example starting emacs the first
        time (in text mode) takes:

          From single speed Mitsumi: 24 s
          From double speed Mitsumi: 11 s
          From Toshiba 3401:          7 s


        The dynamic buffer cache of Linux takes care of the  second  and
        subsequent times a program is started, which needs less than one
        second.

        Our  system  requires  about  5  MB  on  the   hard   disk   for
        configuration files and system management tools. Additionally we
        recommend a 16 MB swap partition. The distribution contains most
        of  the  standard  programs  in  current  versions,  e.g.  Linux
        0.99.15e,  XFree  2.0,  emacs  19.22   and   gcc   2.5.7.   Full
        preconfigured source for everything is included.

        Because  Unifix  is  a  european  distribution  it provides full
        support for iso8859-1 character sets. From the shells and  emacs
        through  ls,  TeX and the print system everything supports 8-bit
        characters.

        Printing  is  supported  through  System  V  compatible  printer
        drivers  which  can  be  controlled  through  lp's  -o  options.
        Printer drivers are included for dumb text  mode  printers,  for
        postscript-   or   ghostscript-   compatible  printers  and  for
        networked printing. These drivers know how to guess the type  of
        the  files  so  e.g.  compressed  man  pages or DVI files can be
        printed directly.


     Ordering:
        Unifix is available only on  CD.  It  comes  in  a  Unifix/Linux
        binder with two boot floppies and about 70 pages of installation
        instructions in german. An english version will be available Apr
        94.  The  price  is  159  DM (about $100) and includes taxes and
        shipping; Eurocard/Mastercard/Visa are accepted.

        Telephone       +49 (0)531 515161
        Fax             +49 (0)531 515162
        Mail            Unifix Software GmbH
                        Postfach 4918
                        D-38039 Braunschweig
                        Germany




     Entry last modified:
        18 Feb 94.


  3.  Redistributors and Miscellany

  This  section  lists  re-sellers  or  re-distributors  of  the   Linux
  distributions  listed  above.  In  other words, the people selling the
  below software more  than  likely  do  NOT  maintain  or  support  the
  software itself.


  This  section  also lists distributors selling commercial software for
  Linux (such as Motif) and miscellany, such as documentation.


  3.1.  Takelap Systems Ltd.


     Distributor:
        Takelap Systems Ltd., info@ddrive.demon.co.uk.


     Description:
        The SLS 1.04 distribution on diskettes.  25  3.5"  or  30  5.25"
        diskettes  including  0.99.13 kernel, X11R5, TeX, doc (WYSIWYG),
        GNU s/w development tools and more.

        The SLS 1.04 Linux Distribution on CDROM: 0.99.13 kernel, X11R5,
        TeX,  Andrew,  GNU  s/w  development tools. May be installed and
        optionally run from CDROM mounted  remotely.  Many  installation
        and operational options.

        The  Yggdrasil  LGX Fall 93 Linux distribution on CDROM: 0.99.13
        kernel, X11R5, TeX, Andrew 5.1, Postgres 4.1, GNU  s/w  develop-
        ment tools.


     Availability:
        Takelap  Systems  Ltd., The Reddings, Court Robin Lane, Llangwm,
        Usk, Gwent, United Kingdom NP5 1ET.   tel:  +44  (0)291  650357,
        fax: +44 (0)291 650500, email: info@ddrive.demon.co.uk.


     Ordering:
        SLS on Diskettes, price ukp42.00 +ukp1.50 p&p + VAT. SLS CD-ROM,
        ukp66.00 +ukp1.50 p&p + VAT.   Yggdrasil  LGX  CD-ROM,  ukp40.00
        +ukp1.50 p&p + VAT. Visa and Mastercard accepted.


     Miscellaneous:
        Free  catalogue  of  CDROMs  and  books (mostly UNIX related) on
        request.


     Entry last modified:
        31 Oct 93.


  3.2.  Linux Systems Labs


     Distributor:
        Linux Systems Labs, dirvin@vela.acs.oakland.edu.


     Description:
        Slackware (all 50 disks and I&GS) for $69.95, resell the  Ygdar-
        sil CDROM, Motif by Metrolink for $175.00 and bundle any version
        of Linux with Motif for $215.00. We currently  print  LDP  docu-
        ments  at  600 DPI Duplexed on a laser printer. We sell the I&GS
        for $10.00 and the NAG for $15.00.

        Also we just started selling a commercial database  called  /rdb
        for  linux  by  Revolutionary  Software for $149.00. (It's quite
        impressive.) Contact us for more information.


     Availability:
        Linux Systems Labs, 18300 Tara  Drive,  Clinton  Twp  MI  48036.
        Phone (313)9542829, (800)9542829, fax (313)954280.


     Ordering:
        See  above for prices. We take MC and Visa and will discount all
        products (except /rdb) 20 for internet customers.


     Entry last modified:
        13 Dec 93.


  3.3.  Clark Internet Services


     Distributor:
        Clark Internet Services, C/O Stephen Balbach


     Description:
        The latest version of Linux on disk and tape direct from the net
        at  affordable  prices.  120MB  installed  on  3.5"  disks. 90MB
        installed on 5.25" disks.


     Ordering:
        Slackware on 32 3.5" disks: $50 (USPS 2nd day).  SLS on 32 5.25"
        disks: $40 (USPS 2nd day).

        Installation  and  Getting  Started  (c)  Copyright  Matt Welsh.
        150+page laser printed, professional bound  manual.   Everything
        to  get installed and running in one easy book.  $15 if ordering
        set (at cost price!). $20 seperate.


     Availability:
        For more complete information, including a multipage description
        of  Linux,  a  hardware  compatibility  sheet, and more detailed
        package descriptions send mail to linux-all@clark.net for  auto-
        reply info (30k of text).


     Ordering:
        Check, money-order

        Stephen Balbach
        5437 Enberend Terrace
        Columbia, MD 21045


        Credit Card orders call 410-740-1157 (Visa, MasterCard, AmXpres)


     Entry last modified:
        31 Oct 93.


  3.4.  SSC Linux Documentation Project Manuals


     Distributor:
        SSC, Inc., sales@ssc.com.


     Availability:
        SSC has printed and comb bound the Linux Installation  and  Get-
        ting  Started  manual,  Version 2 to make it available for those
        who do not have the capability to print it themself and to  sup-
        port  our  customers  who  buy  Linux (Yggdrasil) from us. It is
        printed double-sided with a cover.


     Ordering:
        The manual is $15 plus shipping ($3 in the U.S.).  We can accept
        credit  card  orders  (Visa,  MasterCard or AmEx). Orders can be
        phoned in (206-FOR-UNIX/206-527-3385), FAXed  (206-527-2806)  or
        mailed to SSC, P.O. Box 55549, Seattle, WA 98155.


     Miscellaneous:
        SSC also publishes a series of reference cards on Unix and Unix-
        related programs such as Emacs, VI, Korn Shell, C language, etc.
        We  also sell the Yggdrasil Linux distribution and Free Software
        Foundation books.  Call or e-mail for a free catalog.


     Entry last modified:
        8 Feb 94.


  3.5.  Linux Documentation Hardcopy Service


     Distributor:
        Mark Horton Associates, mah@ka4ybr.atl.ga.us.


     Description:
        The Linux Hardcopy Service provides printed, punched, and  bound
        copies  of the various Linux LDP manuals, FAQs, HOWTOs and other
        related publications. The goal is to provide both new and  expe-
        rienced  Linux users with laser printed, high quality documenta-
        tion. This is particularly useful to new users without access to
        ftp  or  the  facilities  required to print .dvi format, TeX, or
        PostScript files.


     Availability:
        Mark Horton Associates; P.O. Box 747;  Decatur,  GA  US;  30031.
        Phone: 1.404.371.0291, e-mail: mah@ka4ybr.atl.ga.us.


     Ordering:
        (Please  e-mail  mah@ka4ybr.atl.ga.us  for  complete  info, only
        prices are given here.)

        1. Linux Installation and Getting Started, 150 pages, $20.00

        2. Linux Network Administrators' Guide, 250 pages, $30.00

        3. Linux Kernel Hackers' Guide, 120 pages, $20.00

        4. Das LinuXHandBuch, 250 pages, $30.00

        5. LILO Technical Overview and User's Guide, 35 pages, $10.00

        6. FAQs and HOWTOS, 250 pages, $30.00

        7. Shells, shells, shells (man pages), 100 pages, $15.00

        8. Any other documentation you wish printed... make  a  request,
           I'll  print  a  copy, look it over, and provide a price... if
           it's of general interest I'll offer additional  copies  also.
           (Somehow I feel like I just committed to ending up with a LOT
           of printed documentation on my shelves!)


        I can't take credit cards (you wouldn't believe  what  the  bank
        wants  to process those things!)  Personal checks, money orders,
        cash are all ok.  For very large orders from businesses and edu-
        cational sites I guess I could take purchase orders.  Please add
        $2.00 per manual for shipping (ups ground -  add  an  additional
        $10.00  for  ups blue label).  Special overnight shipping can be
        arranged upon request. Call for quantity discount pricing.

        $1.00 per manual sale goes  to  the  Free  Software  Foundation.
        $1.00  per  manual sale goes to Linus and the LDP's virtual beer
        fund.

        Please make checks payable to Mark  Horton  Associates,  address
        given above.


     Miscellaneous:
        Custom t-shirts available on request---send e-mail.


     Entry last modified:
        15 January 1994


  3.6.  Linux Journal


     Distributor:
        ACC, Corp., P.O. Box 3364, Westport, CT 06880-8364.  Phone (800)
        546-7274 in the US or +1  203  454-3242  elsewhere.   FAX  (203)
        454-2582.


     Description:
        Linux Journal is a monthly publication covering the Linux Commu-
        nity. Most material in LJ is new (not  reprinted  from  Usenet).
        Each  issue  includes columns and articles on Linux programming,
        Free Software Foundation issues, systems  administration,  Ques-
        tions  and  Answers,  interviews and more. LJ is a professional-
        quality magazine for the Linux community.


     Availability:
        Subscriptions are $19/year, anywhere on the planet.

     Ordering:
        Payment can be made using VISA, MasterCard or  American  Express
        (make  sure  you include the credit card number, expiration date
        and signature). We can also accept checks in U.S.  dollars.   If
        you  have  a  question concerning appropriate method of payment,
        phone or FAX our subscription numbers or  send  e-mail  to  sub-
        scriptions@fylz.com   For security reasons we discourage sending
        credit card numbers via e-mail.


     Miscellaneous:
        If you are interested in advertising in LJ, contact Joanne  Wag-
        ner  in  our west coast office (address below) or send e-mail to
        joanne@fylz.com. Article queries, new product announcements  and
        other editorial material should be sent to our west coast office
        as well or e-mailed to phil@fylz.com.  Generic questions can  be
        sent  to  linux@fylz.com. Mail advertising and editorial info to
        Linux Journal, P.O. Box 85867, Seattle, WA  98145-1867,  FAX  to
        (206)526-0803 or call (206)524-8338.


     Entry last modified:
        8 Feb 94.


  3.7.  InfoMagic Linux CD-ROM


     Distributor:
        InfoMagic, Inc.


     Description:
        Complete  snapshot  of tsx-11 and sunsite.unc.edu linux archives
        taken at 2 month intervals (Dec, Feb, Apr, ...). The disc is  in
        ISO-9660  format  with Rock Ridge Extensions. A number of ``dis-
        tributions'' are included: SLS, Slackware, MCC, and  TAMU.  Ver-
        sions are as available at the date of capture.


     Availability:
        Readme  and  index  files  are  available via anonymous ftp from
        ftp.uu.net:/vendor/InfoMagic/cds.  Other info is  available  via
        email    (info@InfoMagic.com),   FAX   (609-683-5502)   or   Tel
        (800-800-6613 or 609-683-5501).


     Ordering:
        The disc is priced at $15/copy. Shipping within the  US  is  $5,
        outside $10. Subscriptions are available for $75/year with ship-
        ping of $25 in the US and $35 outside. Orders may be  placed  by
        email,  FAX  or  phone.  We accept Mastercard and Visa, and will
        begin accepting American Express after 1/1/94.


     Entry ast modifiied:
        22 Dec 93.


  3.8.  Lasermoon Ltd.


     Distributor:
        Lasermoon Ltd., info@lasermoon.co.uk, support@lasermoon.co.uk.


     Description:
        The following Linux  products  are  distributed  and  supported,
        (although there are many more of interest):

     o  The Yggdrasil LGX CD-ROM

     o  The Infomagic Linux Developer Resource CD-ROM

     o  The Linux Journal (Monthly Mag), European Distributors



     Availability:
        Lasermoon  Ltd,  2a  Beaconsfield Road, Fareham, Hants, England.
        PO16 0QB. Voice +44 (0) 329 826444.  Fax  +44  (0)  329  825936.
        Email:    info@lasermoon.co.uk    (General    enquiries),   sup-
        port@lasermoon.co.uk (Support desk),  lj@lasermoon.co.uk  (Linux
        Journal desk).


     Ordering:
        LGX  currently  44.95ukp,  LDR  currently  12.95ukp  All  prices
        exclude postage and VAT at the UK rate (17.5).  Discounts avail-
        able   -   please  call.   Visa,  Mastercard,  Access,  EuroCard
        accepted.


     Miscellaneous:
        We provide snapshots of any part of any product on (almost)  any
        media. Call us for details.

        Free  catalogue of many other CD-ROM Freeware products for UNIX,
        DOS and Novell available on request (either by email  or  post).
        Books  by  SSC and O'Reilly Associates (10 discount) also avail-
        able.


     Entry last modified:
        16 Feb 94.


  3.9.  Unifix Custom Linux CD-ROM Mastering


     Distributor:
        Unifix Software GmbH, Braunschweig, Germany


     Description:
        We use our own (Linux based) premastering system to make  custom
        CDs  which  include  the  customer's programs in addition to our
        Linux distribution. This enables our  customers  to  sell  their
        Unix  based  applications  together with operating system tested
        and ready to run. Our CD recorder makes it  possible  to  create
        prototypes and very small series at interesting prices.


     Availablility:
        Ask us for more information or prices:

        Telephone       +49 (0)531 515161
        Fax             +49 (0)531 515162
        Mail            Unifix Software GmbH
                        Postfach 4918
                        D-38039 Braunschweig
                        Germany



  3.10.  SLS and Slackware Diskette Labels


     Distributor:
        UPython Computer and Network Services


     Description:
        Labels for Softlanding and slackware disks


     Availability:
        The  labels  that we print for you are available in several for-
        mats at sunsite.unc.edu:/pub/linux/distributions/SLSlabels.


     Ordering:
        For order information, send mail to DGray@uh.edu.  Cost is $6.50
        per set and domestic shipping in included.  Overseas orders must
        send payment in US funds and add $1 for shipping.   Texas  resi-
        dents add sales tax (6).


     Entry last modified:
        11 Nov 1993.


  3.11.  Fintronic Linux Systems


     Distributor:
        Fintronic Linux Systems


     Description:
        Linux is a wonderful OS. But installing it can be trying to even
        experienced UNIX hands. Shopping for compatible  hardware  takes
        time  as  well. Configuring all of the parts to work together at
        optimal performance is just  plain  hard.  It  can  easily  take
        weeks.  We  save  you from all of that. We sell fully installed,
        custom configured Linux systems for about the price which  you'd
        pay  for  the  hardware  alone.  We  offer  desktop and notebook
        machines. We ship worldwide and  accept  payment  by  check  and
        credit  cards.  If  you  have  any questions or would like to be
        added   to   our   mailing   list,   send   mail    to    linux-
        sales@fintronic.com.

        Our  installation  of  Linux  includes is built from the lastest
        stable releases of standard Linux distributions (like Slackware)
        available  at  the time your machine ships. We test the software
        to ensure that the appropriate libraries are there. We add soft-
        ware  that  the distribution may leave out. But most importantly
        we configure things so they work. Your monitor  and  video  card
        will be configured for opt imal performance. Your hard drive can
        be partitioned to allow dual boot (DOS/Linux).   If  you  buy  a
        modem from us it will be configured to allow dialin and dialout.
        In short, you will have a fully working Linux system  with  none
        of the pain of configuring it yourself.


     Availability:
        For  our  latest  pricelist,  finger  linux-sales@fintronic.com.
        Prices change frequently as we are constantly  looking  for  the
        best deals for our customers.


     Ordering:


        email:  linux-sales@fintronic.com
        fax:   +1.415.325-4908
        Mail:   Fintronic USA, Inc.
                1360 Willow Rd., Suite 205
                Menlo Park, CA 94025
                USA


     Entry last modified:
        20 Nov 93.


  3.12.  SW Technology Linux Systems


     Distributor:
        SW Technology


     Description:
        SW  Technology  has been selling Linux workstations locally with
        high customer satisfaction. Our installation  of  Linux  follows
        the  style  of  the Slackware distribution, with system specific
        kernel image and configuration files, to ensure optimal  perfor-
        mance.   The  installation  is a fairly complete distribution of
        available Linux utilities, including GCC, X, Interviews,  Xview,
        Tcl/Tk, Emacs, TeX/LaTex, Groff, etc.

        We  custom  configure systems: our clients will get the hardware
        components and software configuration per their specification.


     Availability:
        For upto date prices/info, please

        email/finger      swt@netcom.com
        anonymous ftp     netcom8.netcom.com:/pub/swt/info
        phone             (214) 907-0871
        mail              SW Technology
                          251 West Renner Suite 229
                          Richardson, TX 75080




     Entry last modified:
        15 Jan 94.


  3.13.  JANA Three CD Linux Kit



     Distributor:
        CD-ROM A MONTH


     Description:
        We provide a set of 3 CD's that contain Linux and Linux  related
        information.  The  first CD contains Slackware distrubution with
        additional suport for different kernals,  a  live  file  system,
        Linux 1.0, Japanese Extenson, The second CD contains the content
        of TSX-11 and slackware source tree, the 3rd CD contains all the
        linux content of sunsite.unc.edu.


     Availability:
        This  3  CD  kit  and  a book and a T-Shirt is available at many
        retail outlets selling Linux, also you can order from us  direct
        by  calling  1-800-363-2083 or 1-416-538-2311 Or you mail E-Mail
        us at order@jana.com.



     Ordering:
        The cost of the kit is $29.95 and can paid by VISA or MC.  Ship-
        ping  charges  range from $9.95 to $19.95 depending on where you
        live. We ship world wide. We use UPS.


     Miscellaneous:
        Free tech support by phone and E-Mail.


     Entry last modified:
        15 March 94.



  4.  Submissions to this document

  Here's information on how to make submissions to this  docuement,  and
  on the policy that we are using for postings to comp.os.linux.announce
  regarding commercial and mail-order announcements.


  4.1.  New comp.os.linux.announce policy

  One of the purposes of this document is to present short summaries  of
  the many Linux distributions in a compact form for new users to browse
  over. This document is not  merely  a  concatenation  of  the  various
  announcements of Linux distributions and the like.

  Another   purpose   of   this  document  is  to  remove  some  of  the
  `advertisement' traffic  from  the  newsgroup  comp.os.linux.announce.
  The  moderators  of c.o.l.a (as well as many of the readers) feel that
  those people who are re-distributors of Linux distributions which they
  do  not maintain should not be allowed to post periodic advertisements
  in c.o.l.a.... after all, c.o.l.a is for  announcements  important  to
  the Linux community; it is not a moderated sales board.

  Therefore,  if  you  are  distributing Linux software which you do not
  maintain, the only way that you will be allowed to post information to
  c.o.l.a  is  through  this HOWTO. Information on submitting entries to
  this HOWTO is given below. (To submit a posting for c.o.l.a,  mail  it
  to linux-announce@tc.cornell.edu.  Exceptions are given below.

  Here's  an  example.  If  you  are,  for  example,  reselling  the SLS
  distribution of Linux on floppies via mail order, the first time  that
  your  mail-order service is available, you may post an announcement to
  c.o.l.a. Thereafter, you must submit an entry  in  this  HOWTO,  which
  will  be  periodically posted to the newsgroup. Only in the event that
  you do something dramtically new with your service will you be allowed
  to  post  to  c.o.l.a  about it.  (`Dramatically new' does not include
  changing your  prices  or  the  versions  of  the  software  that  you
  distribute.   The   moderators   have  the  final  say  on  just  what
  consititutes `dramatically new'. :) ) The purpose of this is to reduce
  the  number  of periodic postings from people who are using c.o.l.a as
  an electronic billboard.

  However, if you maintain and organize your own distribution  of  Linux
  (whether it be available for anonymous FTP, mail order, or both), then
  you will be allowed to post to c.o.l.a  whenever  you  release  a  new
  version.  You will not be allowed to make periodic postings about your
  distribution, in order to `advertise' it every month; only when a  new
  version  is  released will you be allowed to post to c.o.l.a about it.
  Of course, you should include information on your distribution in this
  HOWTO.


  I  hope  that  this policy is not too confusing; the one basic rule is
  that  we  won't  permit  postings  to   c.o.l.a   which   are   merely
  advertisements  for  your  distribution  or  mail  order  service. The
  posting must include new information which is of interest to the Linux
  community  at  large.  Remember  that c.o.l.a postings are archived on
  sunsite.unc.edu; once your posting is out of the news spool it is  not
  gone forever.


  4.2.  How to submit an entry for this HOWTO

  I  encourage anyone and everyone who maintains a Linux distribution or
  mail order service (or consulting service, and the  like),  to  submit
  information  on  their  service  to this HOWTO. It's easy and fun, and
  it's free advertising. This document is posted to many places  and  is
  archived (see the next section).


  4.2.1.  Types of submissions

  We are interested in submissions for:


  o  Complete  distributions  of  Linux  software,  available either via
     anonymous FTP, UUCP, or mail order. By `complete  distribution'  we
     mean  any  set  of  software  which can be used to build a complete
     Linux system from scratch.

  o  Layered products or individual software packages available only via
     mail  order.  If  your  software package is available via anonymous
     FTP, chances  are  people  can  find  it.  Software  products  only
     available  via  mail-order include commercial things such as Motif,
     and any other commercial software ported to Linux.

  o  Any other LINUX-SPECIFIC goods available via mail  order,  such  as
     Linux-specific  books  and  documentation,  T-shirts,  and assorted
     paraphrenalia.

  o  LINUX-SPECIFIC services such as telephone or e-mail consulting  and
     technical  support.  This category also includes miscellany such as
     development contracts.

  If the number of submissions for  services  and  layered  products  is
  large, I'll create a separate HOWTO for these items.


  4.2.2.  How to submit

  To   submit   an   entry   to   this   HOWTO,   please  send  mail  to
  mdw@sunsite.unc.edu with the following information. This  `format'  is
  not  machine-parsable;  any  of  the fields may be any length that you
  wish, but I'd like to keep each entry down to, say, 50 lines.


     Name:
        Name of service or distribution


     Distributor:
        Name of company, person, etc. who distributes/maintains the ser-
        vice or distribution


     Description:
        Description  of the distribution or service that you provide. If
        this is a software distribution, please include information such
        as  what  software  is  included,  versions, general overview of
        installation, requirements, and so on.


     Availability:
        Where your service or distribution is available. This can be  an
        FTP  site  (including  directory  pathname,  please),  a mailing
        address, phone number, e-mail address, etc.


     Ordering:
        How to  order  your  distribution  or  service,  if  applicable.
        Include prices, shipping information, methods of payment, etc.


     Miscellaneous:
        Anything else that you find relevant.

  Please  keep  your  entry as short as possible. If you need to include
  extensive information, please make a reference to where one can FTP or
  mail  to  get more information on your distribution; these entries are
  only meant to be POINTERS to where one can find  information  on  your
  service or distribution.

  If  you  provide  more  than  one  service or distribution, please use
  SEPARATE ENTRIES for each.

  Some things (such as books, t-shirts, etc.)  won't  fit  exactly  into
  this entry; just be sure to include all relevant information. In other
  words, this "entry form" is simply the  bare  minimum  that  you  must
  include  in  your  submission  to the Distribution-HOWTO; feel free to
  change, add, or leave out "fields" as you see fit.

  I will more than likely edit your entries to some degree if I find any
  irrelevant  information, or if the entry is overly verbose.  Otherwise
  the content should remain the same.

  When making submissions to the Distribution-HOWTO, you grant  implicit
  permission for me to use the entries in other materials, such as books
  from the LDP, and other online  documents.  For  example,  information
  from the Distribution-HOWTO may be included in a published Linux book.
  If you do not want me to include your entry in  materials  other  than
  the Distribution-HOWTO, please say so.



  4.3.  Acknowledgements

  Thanks  to  Bill  Riemers,  who  produced  the  first  version  of the
  Distribution HOWTO and provided helpful advice. Also, thanks to all of
  the  people  who have contributed to this document. I hope that future
  releases of  this  HOWTO  will  be  useful  to  the  Linux  community;
  unfortunately, gathering information on the many services out there is
  a difficult task. Your contributions make this task much easier.

