Newsgroups: comp.os.linux.announce,comp.os.linux.help,comp.os.linux.admin,news.answers,comp.answers
From: mdw@sunsite.unc.edu (Matt Welsh)
Subject: Linux HOWTO Index
Keywords: Linux, HOWTO, FAQ, documentation, index
Summary: Index of HOWTO documents about Linux.
Organization: Linux. It's not just for breakfast anymore.
Followup-To: poster
Approved: linux-announce@tc.cornell.edu (Matt Welsh)

Archive-name: linux/howto/index
Last-modified: 17 March 1994

  Linux HOWTO Index
  by Matt Welsh, mdw@sunsite.unc.edu
  v2.0, 17 March 1994

  This is an index to the Linux HOWTO documents.

  1.  What are Linux HOWTOs?

  Linux  HOWTOs  are  short  online documents which describe in detail a
  certain aspect of configuring or using the Linux system. For  example,
  there   is   the  Installation  HOWTO,  which  gives  instructions  on
  installing Linux, and the Mail HOWTO, which describes how  to  set  up
  and   configure   mail   under  Linux.   Other  examples  include  the
  NET-2-HOWTO (previously the NET-2-FAQ) and the Printing HOWTO.

  Information in HOWTOs is generally more  detailed  and  in-depth  than
  what  can  be  squeezed into the Linux FAQ. For this reason, the Linux
  FAQ is being rewritten. A large amount of  the  information  contained
  therein will be relegated to various HOWTO documents.  The FAQ will be
  a shorter list of frequently asked  questions  about  Linux,  covering
  small  specific  topics. Most of the ``useful'' information in the FAQ
  will now be covered in the HOWTOs.

  HOWTOs are comprehensive docs---much like an FAQ but generally not  in
  question-and-answer  format.  However,  many  HOWTOs  contain  an  FAQ
  section at the end. For example, the NET-2-FAQ has been renamed to the
  NET-2-HOWTO, because it wasn't in question-and-answer format. However,
  you will see the NET-2-HOWTO named as the NET-2-FAQ  in  many  places.
  The two docs are one and the same.


  2.  Where to get Linux HOWTOs

  HOWTOs can be retrieved via anonymous FTP from the following sites:

  o  sunsite.unc.edu:/pub/Linux/docs/HOWTO

  o  tsx-11.mit.edu:/pub/linux/docs/HOWTO

     as  well  as  the  many mirror sites, which are listed in the Linux
     META-FAQ (see below).

  The Index, printed below, lists the currently available HOWTOs.

  HOWTOs are also posted regularly to the newsgroups  comp.os.linux  and
  comp.os.linux.announce.  In  addition,  a number of the HOWTOs will be
  crossposted to news.answers.  Therefore, you can find the Linux HOWTOs
  on the news.answers archive site rtfm.mit.edu.


  3.  HOWTO Index

  The following Linux HOWTOs are currently available. The list is small,
  because this is a relatively new project.


  o  Linux INFO-SHEET, by Michael K. Johnson (johnsonm@sunsite.unc.edu).
     A  general  technical  introduction to Linux, listing its features,
     supported hardware, and other general information.

  o  Linux META-FAQ, by Michael K.  Johnson  (johnsonm@sunsite.unc.edu).
     A   list   of   sources   of   information  about  Linux,  such  as
     documentation, newsgroups, FTP sites, and so on.

  o  Installation HOWTO, by Matt Welsh  (mdw@sunsite.unc.edu).   How  to
     obtain  and install Linux. This is the first document which a Linux
     newcomer should read. It discusses how to obtain Linux,  both  from
     the  Internet  and  via Snail-mail, and how to install it.  Focuses
     primarily on the SLS distribution of Linux, which is the current de
     facto standard.

  o  Linux  Distribution  HOWTO, by Matt Welsh (mdw@sunsite.unc.edu).  A
     list of  many  of  the  major  Linux  distributions  available  via
     anonymous  FTP  and  via  mail  order on diskette, tape, or CD-ROM.
     Also includes other Linux-related goodies that you can only get via
     mail order.

  o  NET-2   HOWTO,   by   Terry   Dawson   (terryd@extro.ucc.su.oz.au).
     Describes how to install and configure the Linux NET-2 TCP/IP code,
     in  kernels  0.99.pl10  and above. (This has nothing to do with the
     so-called BSD NET-2 distribution.)  Discusses  various  aspects  of
     TCP/IP  networking  under  Linux,  including  the  use of SLIP. The
     complete instruction manual for TCP/IP under Linux.


  o  Ethernet HOWTO, by Paul Gortmaker (gpg109@rsphysse.anu.edu.au).   A
     HOWTO about the various Ethernet device drivers which are available
     for Linux. Should be read along with  the  NET-2  HOWTO  by  anyone
     using Ethernet for TCP/IP on Linux.


  o  Serial  HOWTO,  by Greg Hankins (gregh@cc.gatech.edu).  Information
     on serial communications, devices, and software packages for Linux.

  o  XFree86   HOWTO,   by   Helmut   Geyer   (geyer@polyhymnia.iwr.uni-
     heidelberg.de).  This HOWTO describes how to install and  configure
     the  X-Windows  software  distribution  for  Linux. Most of this is
     Linux-specific, and expects you to read the documentation  included
     in the XFree86-2.0 package.

  o  MGR   HOWTO,  by  Vincent  Broman  (broman@Np.nosc.mil).   A  HOWTO
     describing the MGR  window  system  for  Linux,  another  graphical
     interface somewhat like X.

  o  Mail  HOWTO,  by  Vince  Skahan (vince@victrola.wa.com).  All about
     configuration of electronic mail with  Linux,  including  UUCP  and
     TCP/IP mailers such as Smail and sendmail.

  o  UUCP  HOWTO,  by  Vince  Skahan  (vince@victrola.wa.com).   How  to
     configure UUCP to transfer files, mail,  and  news  to  other  UNIX
     machines  on a UUCP-based connection. Includes discussion of Taylor
     UUCP for Linux.


  o  News HOWTO, by Vince  Skahan  (vince@victrola.wa.com).   Setup  and
     configuration   of   news  software,  such  as  C  News,  INN,  and
     newsreaders (such as rn and tin) under Linux.

  o  Printing HOWTO, by Grant  Taylor  (gtaylor@cs.tufts.edu).   How  to
     configure  and  use printing software under Linux, such as lp, lpr,
     etc. including remote printing.

  o  SCSI HOWTO, by Drew Eckhardt (drew@kinglear.cs.Colorado.EDU).   All
     about SCSI tapes, drives, and CD-ROMs under Linux.

  o  Hardware  Compatibility  HOWTO,  by  Ed  Carp  (erc@apple.com).  An
     extensive list of hardware supported by Linux.

  o  Ftape HOWTO,  by  Kai  Harrekilde-Petersen  (ftape@mic.dth.dk).   A
     HOWTO describing the setup and use of various QIC ftape drivers for
     Linux.

  o  Sound  HOWTO,   by   Jeff   Tranter   (tranter@software.mitel.com).
     Information  on sound-related hardware and software for Linux, such
     as how to configure your system for use with a sound card.


  4.  Wanted HOWTOs

  I would be very happy if  someone  would  write  the  following  HOWTO
  documents,  and  submit  them  to me (see the instructions in the next
  section below). Most  of  these  are  modifications  of  existing  FAQ
  documents,  and  should be easy to put into HOWTO format. Keep in mind
  that HOWTOs generally aren't in FAQ format, but  can  contain  an  FAQ
  section at the end.

  Some of these are under construction; however, if you're interested in
  working on one of them, please let me know.


  o  GCC/LIBRARY HOWTO. Discussing installation/upgrading of the GCC and
     shared  libraries under Linux. How to build shared libraries.  Most
     of the material would come from Mitchum DeSouza's GCC FAQ.

  o  KERNEL HOWTO. How to upgrade and compile the kernel.  Basic  kernel
     tweaking, including how to turn on debugging output. How to decrypt
     panic messages. Basic introduction to kernel structure and hacking.


  o  If you have an idea for another HOWTO, please mail me!


  5.  Writing and submitting a HOWTO

  If  you  would  like  to write a Linux HOWTO document, there are a few
  guidelines that you should follow.


  o  Format the document neatly. HOWTOs must be available in plain ASCII
     format,  but  you  are  free  to  use  a  formatting tool (texinfo,
     LameTeX, nroff) to format  the  document.  Try  to  use  meaningful
     structure  and  organization, and write clearly. Remember that many
     of the people reading HOWTOs do not speak English  as  their  first
     language.

  o  Make  sure  that  all of the information is correct. I can't stress
     this enough. When in doubt,  speculate,  but  make  it  clear  that
     you're only guessing.

  o  Make  sure  that  you  are  covering the most recent version of the
     available software. Also, be sure to include full  instructions  on
     where  software  can  be  downloaded  from  (FTP  site  name,  full
     pathname).

  o  Include an FAQ section at  the  end,  if  appropriate.  Many  HOWTO
     documents  need  an  "FAQ"  or  "Common  Problems" section to cover
     information which can't be covered in the regular text.

  o  Use other HOWTOs as a model. It is nice to have a common  look  and
     feel  to  HOWTO  documents---  this  document being an example. The
     easier the HOWTO is to browse,  the  more  useful  it  will  be  to
     readers.

  After  you  have  written  the  HOWTO,  mail  it to me (Matt Welsh) at
  mdw@sunsite.unc.edu. I am the HOWTO coordinator---I will look over the
  HOWTO,  and  make  any  editorial  remarks.  I  will also take care of
  approving  and  posting  the  HOWTO  to  the  various  newsgroups  and
  uploading  the  HOWTO  to the FTP archive sites. Of course, all credit
  for the HOWTO will go to the author.

  It is important that you go through me  when  submitting  a  HOWTO.  I
  maintain  the HOWTO archives and need to keep track of what HOWTOs are
  being written and who is doing what. If you don't submit  a  HOWTO  to
  me, I can't include it in the archive or add it to the HOWTO INDEX.

  Once  I  have  approved the HOWTO, I will post it and upload it to the
  FTP sites. I will also send you (the author) the  "final"  version  of
  the  HOWTO  with  any  changes. All you have to do is send me periodic
  updates (every month or so, as needed) and I will take care of posting
  the HOWTO regularly.


  6.  Miscellaneous and Legalese

  If  you  have questions, please feel free to mail mdw@sunsite.unc.edu.
  The  Linux  FAQ  rewrite  is  being  coordinated   by   Ian   Jackson,
  ijackson@nyx.cs.du.edu, with help from others.

  Unless  otherwise  stated,  Linux  HOWTO  documents are copyrighted by
  their respective authors. Linux HOWTO documents may be reproduced  and
  distributed in whole or in part, in any medium physical or electronic,
  without permission of the author. Translations  and  derivative  works
  are   similarly   permitted  without  express  permission.  Commercial
  redistribution is allowed and encouraged; however,  the  author  would
  like to be notified of any such distributions.

  In short, we wish to promote dissemination of this information through
  as many channels as possible. However, we do wish to retain  copyright
  on  the HOWTO documents, and would like to be notified of any plans to
  redistribute the HOWTOs. If you have questions,  please  contact  Matt
  Welsh, the Linux HOWTO coordinator, at mdw@sunsite.unc.edu.

